Now besides setting up a new project from scratch with React Native Seelye or with the Expos seal iron
then choosing the bare workflow.
You can even convert a managed project into a React Native bear workflow project.
And that's pretty cool because that means you can get all the convenience features of the Managed workflow
during development and once you're done for example or once you need a certain third party package which
integrates some feature you don't have built into Expo and you absolutely need in such a case you can
still switch and you don't have to rebuild the app from scratch and create a brand new project and copy
over your code.
How well in your project and this is the native device feature that great places project we build early
on the course where we can add places where we are of course using the location maps to camera sequel
lights so where we are using all these things there in this project you can simply run Expo eject and
this transforms your project into a non Expo managed workflow project.
Important though there is no going back.
Of course you can copy your folder and make a backup copy and safeties or if you're using get you can
of course go back to an earlier commit but if you haven't saved your project once you reject that you
can't transform it back.
So be aware of this.
You would have to create a brand new Expo managed project and copy overall your code if you wanted to
go back.
So here if you run exploit Jack you should actually be asked to which kind of project you want to eject.
And here I got two options in the end now the options you see here by the way might differ over time
but here are the two options I have are better and expo kit Expo kit is deprecated.
This is basically what we had before we had the bare workflow so you shouldn't really switch to this.
Instead you can switch to bear here which simply means dead.
Now you will be transformed to react native project as if it would be created with the react native
seal ie without the expo wrapper but it will be pre configured.
As mentioned here on the react native unique modules page which is it is kind of this package which
Expo needs to expose all these Expo API is to a non Expo app so it will pre configure all these things
during each action so that you don't have to do that.
So you get a react native plus app so to say so if I hit enter here and now important you can't go back.
Once this completed you can choose a name for the home screen and all choose great places here for example
hit Enter now name my Android Studio and X code projects are and guide.
But that's up to you and now does will do its job.
It transforms the project.
It adds an android folder and since I'm on Mac OS it also adds a Iow folder of course on Windows and
Linux.
It won't do that because they're since you now need to build this locally.
It can't build ISIS apps.
And it reconfigure its everything and installs a couple of dependencies so that you can use your existing
code and all the expo packages you already installed in this bear setup.
So it does not just set up all the uni modules stuff here.
It also makes sure that all the packages you are already using like Expo location or Expo sequel light
that those packages all the work so nowadays can take a while.
Let's wait for this to finish and here it's done and you see it actually tells me that it generally
did its job but there were two packages which require some manual setup.
You can simply click on these links to get instructions on what you need to do there.
It's the expo image picker and the react native maps package where you need to do some manual installation
to finish it up.
So here on the Expo image picker page.
In the end what we need to do is we need to run port install in the Iaw folder so we need to do all
the things.
After installing the package so in the project folder all navigate into S and run port install port
is like NPM for us it installs some dependencies which I w needs to work correctly.
So that's what's happening now and once this is done will also need to add this entry year to the Android
manifest so that's also something we'll need to do.
So we need to go to the Android folder the app folder there and in the source folder Android manifest
and then as described here at this inside of the application tax.
So here is application and in there we should add this activity entry here like this that's required.
Now while some already here you will also see that this manifest file all that was set up in a certain
way.
It includes all permissions and of course you don't want to do that you only want to ask for the permissions
you really need.
So as it says here remove any permissions your app doesn't need and for example my demo application
here should only need to access fine location permission which I'll move up there
and the camera permission of course which will move up there and also the right external storage permission
that should also be required.
These should actually be all permissions and you can check all third party packages or all Expo API
packages you're using to make sure you're not missing any permissions.
With that I'll actually comment out all these permissions here and all all these permissions that will
test it to see whether that works so if that setting up the image picker package is done now react native
maps all also needs to be configured there we can dive into the installation instructions.
Now this npm install command that already happened.
But now what we need to do is we need to run React Native link React Native maps so let's simply go
up one level back into the root project folder and run run React Native linked React Native maps and
dad will now link everything up.
Make sure that everything works correctly that everything is configured correctly and you will still
need to do some manual stuff all these things here should not be required.
That should all be done with linking thankfully but on Android you need to make sure that you add this
entry here.
This metadata entry into your application key in the Android manifest.
So here instead of application we can add this entry and there you need to place your Google Maps API
key.
Now I have that in the end folder.
If you remember so I'll just grab this key and added here replace your Google Maps API key here with
it and all the important.
If you go to the Google Maps API page you need to enable this maps SDK for Android for your project.
That's important.
Otherwise this will not work for IOW you don't need to do anything special unless you want to use Google
Maps data in which case you need to follow the instructions given in the react native maps.
Instructions here for how to use Google Maps on and on.
But for Android you definitely need to enabled Google Maps SDK for Android API here to enable this API
you can go to the Google Cloud Platform here for the project you worked on earlier when you set up that
API key and so on and then here under API eyes and services you can go to library which takes you to
a library of all the Google API eyes and their de maps SDK for Android.
You need to enable this.
You also will need to set up the maps SDK for AOS if you want to use Google Maps and I which I won't
use here though.
Now it should be enabled here already.
But make sure it is right in case it was not enabled.
Definitely do so.
With that this should also be set up such that it works.
And now if you run React Native run Android the app we built in an earlier module with the expo managed
workflow should now still work now without the expo managed workflow without the expo client being used
on the simulator or the real device but instead build locally with Android Studio or of course all that
with.
IOW if you wanted to use that and therefore in the same way as you would do it in a react native seal
I created Project.
But now after ejecting from the managed workflow which of course means all this code was written in
the managed workflow and yet I now run it in the non managed workflow which is pretty sweet.
So let's wait for it to finish and see where this app works the way it should.
It's coming up on the android emulator here which is the emulator I want to use for testing because
data I can use the emulator a camera for testing and again just to emphasize this this is now not using
the expo client app.
We also couldn't scan a barcode here because there is no barcode to scan.
This is no really app built with Android Studio and pushed to our app.
So here's our app and now let's try adding a new place here.
Test take an image allow access to the camera of course
and then take this image
Yep crop it.
Pick a location on the map maybe
here's the map coming up this location looks good to me.
Safety is safe to place.
Here we are.
And now let me close this app.
There you also see that this really is a stand alone app installed.
If I open the app drawer here on the device you're on the simulator.
It's this great places app you see here.
So if a launch this does now relaunches the app we just worked in there's our place as it was stored
in the local storage.
The image obviously was stored on the filesystem system otherwise you wouldn't see it.
And it works as before but now not inside of the actual client but as a standalone app without any Expo
wrapper.
Still using some of the Expo API as an expo packages with the help of this unique modules package which
is automatically added and configured to the bare workflow which we on the other hand got with the help
of ejecting.
So lots of cool things going on there.